Ultraball is a competitive, rapid, chaotic sports game where anticipation, planning, and quick reactions are necessary to survive.
The game is played on a multi-part field. The main playing area is 80 meters long and 40 meters with. At both ends of the fields, there is a channel 10 meters long and 40 meters wide that is patroled by a giant creature (the creature changes, based on the home team). The creature will generally circle the entire field travelling counter-clockwise and will devour any player in its path (visting player and home players alike). Past the channel on each end of the field is a 20 meter long and 40 meter wide endzone.
The objective of Ultraball is to score the most points across 5 acts. The first 4 acts are timed on a 3-minute clock. Act 5 ends when the team winning at the start of the act scores enough points for an Ultra, or the other team comes from behind and meets this points goal. Points are scored in three ways, 7 points for an "Ultra" which occurs when a player carries the ultraball into the opposign end zone; 3 points for a "Meta" which occurs when the ultraball is passed to a player in the opposing enzone; 1 point for a "Killa" which occurs when a player from the opposing side is killed (whether by another player or any game hazard).
Game mechanics:
1) This is two-sided combat game. There are no rules other than combat.
2) When the Ultraball is passed by a team, if a teammate does not catch the ultraball, then all players on that team will be stunned for 1 second when the Ultraball touches the ground or when the opposing team catches the Ultraball.
3) The Ultraball is a high-energy object that increases in charge as a player holds on to it. If a player holds onto the Ultraball for 7 seconds without passing or crossing a phase line, then the Ultraball will release all of its energy, killing the player and dropping to the ground (which stuns the surviving members of the team).
4) The Ultraball's energy dissipates when it is passed, increasing it's cooldown before it releases its energy by 1 second for every 1 meter the Ultraball travels in the air.
5) The Ultraball's energy dissipates completely whenever it crosses an active phase line. Active phase lines are every 20 meters along the 80 meter field, so 5 phase lines total (including at the start of each channel).
6) When the Ultraball crosses a phase line during a team's possession of the Ultraball, that phase line becomes deactivated. This means that crossing the phase line again during the current possession will not dissipate the Ultraball's energry. All phase lines become active again whenever posession of the Ultraball changes to the other team.
7) Ultraball teams consist of 7 players each. During each act, 1 substitution is allowed (with a new player coming from their sideline at midfield) for each team when a player dies. After subsequent deaths during an act, then the team will play at a disadvantage. At the end of each act, each team returns to their 7 player limit.
8) Ultraball team rosters consist of 15 players. Deaths are PERMANENT. If an Ultraball team has all 15 players killed in a match, then the team forfits the match. Teams can choose to concede and forfit the match at any time.
